expect the unexpected. Well, the unexpected has arrived, hasn't it? None of us expected
that this graduation program would need to be modified and changed as it is. And yet,
what have you had to do? You've had to accept the unexpected. There's not much you can do.
And we'd like to commend you, students, soon to be graduates of this class of Gilly,
because you have accepted these changes in a fine positive attitude. But it does highlight
to us, doesn't it, that sometimes it can be disappointing when unexpected things occur?
Now soon you'll be going to your assignments, whether back home or to a new assignment.
Even though doubt, you're going to face some unexpected things as well. And we'd just
like to discuss one aspect of this theme. If you'd like to take your Bibles and turn
with me to Ecclesiastes chapter 10. Ecclesiastes chapter 10 and verse 7. And here it describes
something that is unexpected. I have seen servants on horseback, but princes walking
on foot, just like servants. What you wouldn't expect to see that, would you? Now, how are
you going to see that? Well, the watch that made a very interesting comment about this
first, it said, those who have great ability do not always receive the recognition. And
those with less ability sometimes receive more honor. So when you arrive back full of enthusiasm,
you've enjoyed your Gilly training and no doubt you're thinking, I'm a different person.
I've changed. And we hope you have. Maybe you might expect there will be certain privileges
granted to you. And yet, at the same time, you may see that someone you don't expect is
given those privileges. They may even come up to you and say, I'm so surprised. I'm shocked.
They've given me this privilege. And outwardly, you're saying, hmm, but inwardly, you're saying,
I'm shocked too. Because I'm the one who is trying to gilly it. Surely, I should get this
privilege. But when you think about it, remember, Jehovah is the one who is backing the work. And at
times, he does the unexpected. And in this case, give someone we don't expect a privilege. And
think about it for a few moments, when you first came here, we know and remember your introductions.
And quite a number of you made the comment, we received our invitation to Gilly. We were shocked.
We were humbled. We were amazed. Now, moreover, thinking, why were we selected? And maybe some
of the people in your congregation and branch walks are saying, why were they accepted? You see,
maybe that was an unexpected invitation. But now, here you are about to graduate.
But it's good to remember that sometimes others are surprised about privileges that we're given.
So what can help us to accept the unexpected when it comes to others getting privileges?
Well, let's look at two principles in the scriptures. The first one is in Ecclesiastes chapter 6 and
verse 9. Ecclesiastes chapter 6 and verse 9. Better to enjoy what the I see than to wonder
after one's desires. This too is futility, a chasing after the wind. So in other words, be satisfied
with the privileges you do have. Don't be looking for other privileges, just not satisfied with
what you've already been given. Treasure the privileges you already have. And included, and that is
the privilege of coming here to Gilly and being trained. Now, the second principle we'd like to
highlight is found in the book of Psalms Psalm 119 verses 31 and 32. I cling to your reminders.
O Jehovah, do not let me be disappointed. I will eagerly pursue the way of your commandments
because you make room for it in my heart. What's the point? Don't be disappointed. Trust in Jehovah,
trust in his arrangement. It could be that Jehovah is saying to you, look, you've already had enough
privileges. You went to Gilead, remember? Now, be happy that I'm letting someone else
have an unexpected privilege. Well, that can be a test. Another thing that will help us in a
situation like that is to remember many of the accounts in the scriptures. And one of those
we like to refer to briefly is that of David killing Goliath. Let's think for a few moments.
If you were in his right soldier, just before David offered himself to do this assignment,
who would you have expected to take down this giant Goliath? Well, probably, first of all,
you would have thought about King Saul because after all, he was head and shoulders taller
than the average person. And he was a man experienced in warfare. So you might have expected,
I think King Saul is the one who will take this on. Or maybe, if you weren't thinking of King Saul,
you might be thinking of his son, Jonathan. Why? Well, remember, Jonathan was a national hero
by this time. There was the case there in McMash, where he and his attendant climbed up and
boldly and bravely appeared before the Philistines. They killed about 20 of them. And that was the
turning point in the battle. So if anyone is going to take on Goliath, probably you would expect
Jonathan would be able to do that. Now, let's just assume that you were thinking maybe the best
way to do this would be with a sling and a stone. So now, who would you expect to actually do this?
Probably, Saul and Jonathan. Why? They were from the tribe of Benjamin. And what do you remember
about the people from Benjamin? They were experts with using the sling. In fact, we had told they
could sling a stone to a headbreath and would not miss. And in fact, in First Chronicles 12-2,
it says that the brothers of Saul were experts with the sling. So not knowing what
Jehovah was going to do, probably each one of us, if we were back then, would have thought surely
it would be King Saul or maybe Jonathan, they're the most qualified. But why wouldn't you have
expected David? Well, for a start, David was just a boy. He wasn't a soldier. He didn't have
experience in warfare. Yes, he'd killed a lion and a bear, but he really didn't know about
fighting people in a war. Secondly, he wasn't impressive in appearance. In fact, Goliath was shocked
when he saw this young man coming toward him. And thirdly, he wasn't from the tribe of Benjamin.
You see, he wasn't one of these famous persons who could use the sling. The watchtower made the
comment that perhaps because David lived near where the tribe of Benjamin was, maybe that's where
he learned how to use the sling. But the bottom line is none of us would have expected that this young
man, David, would have been used. It was an unexpected event. But now let's think for a moment about
how others reacted. How did King Saul react? Well, initially, King Saul was very happy with the fact
that David killed Goliath. But what happened later, that turned into jealousy, didn't it? Even into
a murderous desire to kill David. But on the other hand, what about Jonathan? You see, Jonathan
perhaps could have been jealous, but he wasn't. He built a strong relationship and friendship with David.
So what can we learn from this account? You see, if you come across someone who gets that
ideal privilege, that assignment that you always secretly have wanted and that you actually
modestly think you deserve, what will you be? A soul or a Jonathan? Yes, brothers and sisters,
let's always remember, Jehovah does the unexpected and sometimes the unexpected is giving someone else
you don't expect a certain privilege. Don't stand in the way of Jehovah when he uses someone else to
glorify his name. Yes, rejoice in the fact that others are used, just like you are being used
in an unexpected way.